I've got a WPF application here you'll
notice that it's got three text boxes
just standard text boxes nothing special
about them but when we execute the
application and we run a tablet pc
you'll notice that i can click on the
text box and it will give me the option
to open a text input panel where i can
write in some text and it will analyze
it and then once i'm sure it's correct i
can click input it's a little bit of a
hassle though because i have to click
the icon i have to then input my text in
a separate box then click insert then
close the text panel so i think that we
can do better simply by taking advantage
of an ink analysis API that's available
in managed code so in the saml i'm going
to go find those text boxes i'm actually
going to be replacing those with a grid
and some other content so first i'll
paste in a grid that already has some
properties set and i'm going to surround
that text box with a grid get rid of the
second and third text boxes and now i'm
going to fix up the text box don't need
tho those granted settings we're going
to make it a text block instead of a
text box and I'm going to give it a name
next I'm going to create an entity of
type ink canvas right so this gives you
a lot of built-in functionality with
respect to to ink so i'll give it a name
a width and a height it set its
background color so we can tell where
the canvas is it's always nice for the
user to be able to see where they're
going to write i'm also going to add an
event handler for the lost focus event
let me go back and add an event handler
for the text block as well for it's
stylist down event handler
now you remember that we had three text
boxes so I'm going to create three
copies of that whole set of elements so
three grids inside of which are three
text blocks and three Inc campuses and
I'm going to fix up the names here as
well just so they all have unique names
now I'm going to go to code behind file
and the first thing I'm going to do here
is add a using statement so go to the
top a day using statement for system
windows ink and then go back down to the
event handler and let's implement lost
focus first so I'm going to retrieve the
ink canvas and I can just retrieve that
because I know it's the sender of the
event will check to make sure that it's
strokes property is not null and not
empty because there's no point in doing
analysis if there's no ink to analyze
next I'm going to retrieve the grid that
contains the Inca canvas because once i
have the grid i can retrieve the text
block and i want to access both the ink
canvas and the text block in this case
all right now I want to create an object
of type ink analyzer but you'll notice
that it doesn't appear there that's
because it does not ship with net but
rather it ships with the tablet pc SDK
which of course is included in tablet
pcs so in order to be able to get to
that I need now to get out to program
files and then look for reference
assemblies I'm looking for microsoft
tablet pc i want v 1.7 and i'm looking
for that I a win effects dll alright so
that's the dll i need go ahead and
select that now if i was to use ink
analyzer at this point i had run into a
problem that at runtime it would
complain that the dll was compiled
against version 1.0 of net and we're in
40 and so i need to add this this
property use legacy v2 runtime
activation policy set that to true in
app config and that'll prevent that air
from happening at runtime all right back
to the code where I'm now able to
uncomment out and see automatically it's
able to find ink analyzer so we'll
create an instance of ink analyzer will
go ahead and add all of the strokes from
the ink canvas to our analyzer and then
here's where we actually do the ink
analysis we simply call the analyze
method now it returns a status that we
can check to see if it's successful and
if it is successful and we simply set
the text box text property to be equal
to the recognized string that we got
from the analysis process just a quick
you I change here to swap the visibility
of the text block any ink canvas make
the text block visible the ink canvas
collapsed or invisible and that's it now
as far as the style
down nothing in here really has to do
with ink analysis so really quickly
we'll just add the code it's sort of the
reverse of the analysis process in which
in this case we're retrieving the ink
canvas and we're going to clear the
strokes we're going to make the ink
canvas visible and the text block
invisible or collapsed it's like we must
a closing bracket will fix that rebuild
and let's try out the application so now
we don't need to display the text input
panel we can just go right to the area
next to our name and start writing and
then when we navigate away so in other
words when that ink canvas loses focus
it'll perform the analysis and you can
see that automatically it'll just
replace it with the corrected text or
rather the nice version of the text and
then we have ink analysis in c-sharp and
WPF for in Windows 7